Java is a simple language: Java is easy to learn and its syntax is clear and concise. It is based on C++ (so it is easier for programmers who know C++). Java has removed many confusing and rarely-used features e.g. explicit pointers, operator overloading, etc. Java also takes care of memory management and it also provides an automatic garbage collector. This collects the unused objects automatically.
Java is a platform-independent language: The programs written in Java language, after compilation, are converted into an intermediate-level language called the bytecode which is a part of the Java platform irrespective of the machine on which the programs run. This makes java highly portable as its bytecodes can be run on any machine by an interpreter called the Java Virtual Machine(JVM) and thus java provides 'reusability of code'.
Java is an object-oriented programming language: OOP makes the complete program simpler by dividing it into a number of objects. The objects can be used as a bridge to have data flow from one function to another. We can easily modify data and function's as per the requirements of the program.
Java is a robust language: Java programs must be reliable because they are used in both consumer and mission-critical applications, ranging from Blu-ray players to navigation systems.
Java is a multithreaded language: Java can perform many tasks at once by defining multiple threads. For example, a program that manages a Graphical User Interface (GUI) while waiting for input from a network connection uses another thread to perform and wait instead of using the default GUI thread for both tasks. This keeps the GUI responsive.
Java programs can create applets: Applets are programs that run in web browsers. But applets support was deprecated in Java 9 release and has been removed in Java 11 release due to waning browser support for the Java plugin.
Java does not require any preprocessor: It does not require the inclusion of header files for creating a Java application.
